# STAT628-project2 by group 2

## Introduction

This repository is for storing our source code for STAT628 class project 2.

We seperated our task to several parts, for each person, we are going to:

- Preethi: cleaning the data, fit and evaluate decision tree model, preparing the summary
- Yidan: cleaning the data, fit and evaluate the linear regression model, preparing the presentation materials
- Bingyan: fit and evaluate random forest model, make the shiny app, maintaining the github project

The basic structure of this repository is four directories:

- data: contains the raw data and our cleaned data, contributed by Preethi and Yidan
- sourcecode: code for the data analysis, contributed by Preethi, Yidan and Bingyan
- image: images that we produced to visualize the analysis process and result
- myapp: the shiny app source code developed by Bingyan

## Guideline

Here is the framework of our analysis and reference to use the code.

First, we cleaned the data using Z-score method, using the matlab file data/bodyfatcleaning.m generate by Preethi, then we convert the unit of height to cm in excel. Notes_on_Cleaned_Data.md contains our framework of cleaning data.

Second, we considered three different models: linear regression, decision tree and random forest. To fit and evaluate the performance of the models, we seperated our task. The sourcecode/linear_regression_YD.R is generated in R by Yidan using R, contains the code of the linear regression and the process we select predictors, the plots we used for analysis. sourcecode/randomforest_BY.ipynb is generated in Colab by Bingyan using Python, containing the RFE method to select predictors and models fitted, residual analysis and scatter plots to visualize the result. sourcecode/decisiontree_final.PNS.m is generated by Preethi in Matlab, containing entropy method to select predictors, decision tree model fitting process and visualization of the result.

Third, comparing the MSE and R^2 of our results, we choose linear regression as our final model.

## Web App Source Code

In myapp_BY folder, contains the source code of our web app developed by Flask in Python. It has been published on a cloud server to give access to the audience. If one intended to run the code on a local server, please follow the steps below:

1. Enter the folder: cd myapp_BY
2. (optional) Create virtual environment: source venv/bin/activate
3. Install Flask: pip install flask
4. Set up Flask: 
export FLASK_ENV=development
export FLASK_APP=app
5. Run code: flask run

This should allow the web page run on your local server. We encourage developers using Python 3.10.8 to make sure the code could executed correctly.

